.PU
.TH STUFF 1 "$Date: 2001/03/24 00:51:56 $" Linux

.SH NAME
stuff \- create archives and encode files

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B stuff
.B [ POSIX or GNU style options ]
[
.I "file/directory \&..."
]

.PP
where
.I "file/directory \&..."
is one or more parameters listing files or directories to compress or encode.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I stuff
is an application that creates archives and encoded files in multiple
compressed and encoded formats. It is a command-line utility that uses the
StuffIt Engine shared library.

.PP
.I stuff
takes a list of files and directories on its command line and compresses them
into an archive or encodes them.

.PP
.I stuff
can currently compress files into
.I StuffIt, zip, UNIX compress, PrivateFile
archive formats
and encode files into
.I uuencode, BinHex and MacBinary formats.

.SH OPTIONS
Command-line options are distinguished from arguments (file and directory
names) by one or two dashes.
.I Short
(one-character) options are preceded by one dash,
.I long
(multi-character) options are preceded by two dashes. Some options have
only short or a long form; some have both. Options are listed in
alphabetical order.

.TP
.B \-e=[option] --eol=[option]
Selects one of the following text type options, represented by [option]:
.B native, win, windows, crlf, unix, lf, mac, macintosh, cr.
Default:
.B native.

.TP
.B \-f=[format] --format=[format]
Determines which archive format is created:
.I format
is the format of the new archive: one of
.I StuffIt, StuffIt5, Zip, UnixCompress, Uuencode, BinHex, MacBinary, StuffItSegment, PrivateFile.

Determines what archive format is created:
.I format
is the format of the new archive: one of
.I sit, sit5, cpt, zip, arc, arj, lha, ha, rar, gz, compress, sco, pack, compact, freeze,
uu, hqx, btoa, mime, tar, bin, sitseg, or pf. Not all listed formats are supported;
to determine which ones are, use
.B --formats.
Default:
.B sit5.

.TP
.B --formats
Shows archive formats supported by
.I stuff
and the StuffIt Engine.

.TP
.B -l=[level] --level=[level]
Assigns the archive compression level. Valid compression levels are 0, 13, and 15
for sit5 archives, and 0 through 9 for zip archives. Default:
.B [automatic].

.TP
.B \-n=[file] --name=[file]
Sets the name of the archive to be created.
Default:
.B [automatic].

.TP
.B \-p=[password] --password=[password]
Sets the password to be used in the operation.
Default:
.B none.

.TP
.B \-q --quiet
Suppresses all messages normally printed during operation.
Default:
.B [no].

.TP
.B \-v --version
Shows
.I stuff
and StuffIt Engine version information. Default:
.B [no].

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B stuff file
Creates a
.I StuffIt5
archive from a file named
.I file.

.TP
.B stuff -f=Zip file
Creates a
.I Zip
archive from a file named
.I file.

.TP
.B stuff --format=Zip --comp-level=9 file
Creates a
.I Zip
archive from a file named
.I file,
using the maximum compression level (which is also the slowest to compress).

.TP
.B stuff --name=newarchive.sit dir
Creates a
.I StuffIt5
archive named
.I newarchive.sit
from a directory named
.I dir
and everything it contains (files and subdirectories, recursively).

.TP
.B stuff --password=abcdef file1 file2
Creates an encrypted
.I StuffIt5
archive from two files:
.I file1
and
.I file2.

.TP
.B stuff --format=BinHex --eol=mac file1 file2
Creates a
.I BinHex
encoded file containing two files:
.I file1
and
.I file2,
concatenated. The
.I BinHex
file is a Macintosh text file (with CR-only end-of-lines).

.SH SEE ALSO
compress(1), gzip(1), zip(1)

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Exit status is normally 0;
if an error occurs, exit status is 1 or 2.

