.PU
.TH UNSTUFF 1 "$Date: 2001/03/15 08:02:24 $" Linux

.SH NAME
unstuff \- expand many compressed and encoded formats

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B unstuff
.B [ POSIX or GNU style options ]
[
.I "archive \&..."
]

.PP
where
.I "archive \&..."
is one or more parameters listing archives to expand.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I unstuff
is an application that expands archives and decodes encoded files in 
multiple compressed and encoded formats. It is a command-line utility that 
uses the StuffIt Engine shared library. 

.PP
.I unstuff
takes a list of archives on its command line and expands each one in sequence.
.I unstuff
detects input formats automatically. It recognizes archives and encoded 
files by analyzing their contents instead of relying on file name extensions 
such as
.B "\&.sit"
or
.B "\&.gz".

.PP
.I unstuff
can currently decompress files created by
.I StuffIt, zip, Arc, Arj, gzip, UNIX compress, PrivateFile
and decode files in
.I uuencode, BinHex, btoa, btoa5, MIME, and MacBinary formats.

.SH OPTIONS
Command-line options are distinguished from arguments (archive names) by 
one or two dashes.
.I Short
(one-character) options are preceded by one dash,
.I long
(multi-character) options are preceded by two dashes. Some options have 
only short or a long form; some have both. Options are listed in 
alphabetical order. 

.TP
.B \-d=[directory] --destination=[directory]
Sets the destination directory for expanded files. Default:
.B .

.TP
.B \-e=[option] --eol=[option]
Selects one of the following text type options, represented by [option]: 
.B native, win, windows, crlf, unix, lf, mac, macintosh, cr.
Default:
.B native.

.TP
.B --formats
Shows archive formats supported by
.B unstuff
and the StuffIt Engine. Default:
.B [no].

.TP
.B \-m=[option] --macbinary=[option]
Selects one of the following MacBinary output options, represented by [option]:
.B off, no, on, yes, or auto.
Default:
.B off.

.TP
.B \-p=[password] --password=[password]
Sets the password to be used in the operation.
Default:
.B none.

.TP
.B \-q --quiet
Suppresses all messages normally printed during operation.
Default:
.B [no].

.TP
.B \-t=[option] --text=[option]
Selects one of the following text conversion options, represented by 
[option]:
.B off, no, on, yes, or auto.
Default:
.B off.

.TP
.B \-v --version
Shows
.I unstuff
and StuffIt Engine version information. Default:
.B [no].

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B unstuff archive.sit
Expands an archive named
.I archive.sit.

.TP
.B unstuff --destination=/var/tmp archive.sit
Expands an archive named
.I archive.sit
and places expanded files into
.I /var/tmp.

.TP
.B unstuff --text=auto --eol=unix archive.sit
Expands an archive named
.I archive.sit,
converting text files to Unix format (LF end-of-lines).

.TP
.B unstuff --password=abcdef archive.sit
Expands an archive named
.I archive.sit,
decrypting its contents with the password
.I abcdef.

.SH SEE ALSO
compress(1), gunzip(1), unzip(1)

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Exit status is normally 0;
if an error occurs, exit status is 1 or 2.

